---
title: "Production Readiness: Upgrades"
date: 2024-08-08
---

One of the most hated activities in the IT industry is upgrading software. You have the working software and usually need to do something that can break it.
Often, it is pushed by security team(but hey we are all - security team) and the tasks are postponed.

I personally love upgrading software. It is a great way to see how software is evolving, try new features, and see how the software is changing. It is easy for me, since I can always fix the issues that arise.

But I understand that it is not the case for everyone. It is a risky activity and it can break the system. People tried to make it better: DevOps culture to introduce developers practices in operations, then SRE. But in the end we never had a good development culture. One path was - exteme programming. Introduce more tests, work in pair so the context is shared, do the small changes, do the refactoring with constant improvements, make sure developers grow and learn. But it is hard to do in the big companies - no one wants to pay for the quality and for growing the developers. (But later about it).

So we end up with the system we don't know well, with minimal test coverage, with lots of technical debt, with overworked developers and always in the rush. And quite often upgrades are postponed because they don't bring the value to the business. If we are lucky we can squeeze some upgrades tasks into bigger epics, made up some benefits for top management. Otherwise, security team bites us and we need urgently to do something, get extensions and so on.

How can we make it work. The same way as with complex software:

- add test coverage on important parts
- make deployments faster
- make deployments more often
- automate the upgrades
- make the upgrades more often
- keep involving your team.

I will go practical later. But the main idea is to make the upgrades as easy as possible. The same as with the software development - the more often you do it, the easier it is. And the more people are involved, the more knowledge is shared and the easier it is.